Microscope is available on the Python Package Index (PyPI) and can be
`installed like any other Python package
<https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/>`_.  The
short version of it is use pip::

  pip install microscope

Note that you need to have Python and pip already installed on your
system.


Requirements
============

Microscope can run in any operating system with Python installed but
individual devices and intended usage may add specific requirements:

- **hardware performance**: control of devices at high speed, namely
  image acquisition at very high rates, may require a fast connection
  to the camera, high amount of memory, or a disk with fast write
  speeds.  In such case, it may be advantageous to have a dedicated
  machine for the camera.

- **external libraries**: control of many devices is performed via
  vendor provided external libraries which are often limited to
  specific operating systems.  For example, Alpao does not provide a
  library for Linux systems so control of Alpao deformable mirrors is
  limited to Windows.  See the :ref:`Dependencies
  <install-dependencies>` sections below.

If there are multiple devices with high resources or incompatible
requirements they can be distributed over multiple computers.  For
example, two cameras acquiring images at a high frame rate or a camera
that requires Windows paired with a deformable mirror that requires
Linux.  See the :ref:`Examples <examples>` section.


.. _install-dependencies:

Dependencies
============

Microscope has very few dependencies.  All are Python packages
available on PyPI and will be automatically resolved if Microscope is
installed with pip.  However, the interface to many devices is done
via an external library (or SDK, or driver) that is only provided by
the device vendor.

To identify if an external library is required, check the associated
module documentation.  If an external library is required, contact the
device vendor for install instructions.  Cameras, deformable mirrors,
and spatial light modulators all require an external library.  Filter
wheels, lasers, and stages typically do not but there are exceptions.


Development sources
===================

Microscope development sources are available on github.  To install
the current development version of Microscope::

  git clone https://github.com/MicronOxford/microscope.git pip
  pip install --no-index microscope/

Also consider using editable mode if you plan to make changes to the
project::

  pip install --no-index --editable microscope/

Multiple Microscope versions
----------------------------

Python package system will not by default handle multiple versions of
a package.  If installing from development, beware to not overwrite a
previous installation.  A typical approach to address this issue is to
use `virtual environments
<https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/#creating-and-using-virtual-environments>`_.

Un-merged features
------------------

Many features are still in development and have not been merged in the
master branch.  To try such features, you will need to know the branch
name and the repository where such feature is being developed.  For
example, to try Toshiki Kubo's implementation of the Mirao52e
deformable mirror::

  git remote add toshiki https://github.com/toshikikubo/microscope.git
  git fetch toshiki
  git checkout toshiki/mirao52e
  pip install --no-index ./
